that world of political
geography is not going away at
the same time we are engaging in
this topographical engineering
these very robust and
engineering systems by which we
modified the planet to suit what
we want you to do what are
various economic and political
activities are so this is a very
different way of thinking about
how we map and what we map and
what matters most on the map
conecto graphy connect ography
I've already heard it pronounced
thousand which ways but of
course what I'm talking about is
the fusion of connectivity and
of geography and all of that
connectivity revolution as i
call it falls into three
particular categories that I
like in two three systems in the
human body and what we have here
is the world's highways and
railways oil and gas pipelines
electricity grids internet
cables all of this
infrastructure that is massively
exponentially accelerated our
ability to move people and goods
and resources and knowledge and
technology and ideas around the
world and that revolution is in
by many measurements are metrics
really just getting underway
they said we were just in the
early phases of this incredible
build out of global
infrastructure by some estimates
will start will spend not just
the four trillion dollars per
year on infrastructure that we
spend today but rising two seven
or eight trillion dollars in the
coming years
meanwhile military spending
worldwide though it's rising in
in quite a few geographies as an
aggregate is relatively steady
at around two trillion dollars
so what happens when we build
out all this infrastructure as
this as these infrastructure
sort of envelop and wrap around
the world
I believe that we we evolved
beyond one of the most ancient
adages and phrases that we all
know geography is destiny
instead we think of the arc of
history as really taking us in a
certain direction in that
direction is more and more and
more connectivity
there's a terminus for for
academia
extra statecraft which that
infrastructure is so real
where are so many borders are
considered artificial that it
has an authority a gravity if
you will and when countries
build infrastructure like a
highway or a railway or
electricity grid something
really basic you know that they
share with each other
it winds up being something that
is almost a you know irrevocable
bond it's obviously positive sum
and the more of those that you
have the less one thinks about
not sovereignty as guiding their
relations but this connectivity
really shaping how they relate
to each other and so that's the
shift that's happening now from
political geography being the
most paramount feature of the
map which is again the borders
to the functional geography
which is the infrastructure and
the supply chains gradually what
I believe what happens is what i
call the global network
civilization that eventually
emerges from all of this
infrastructure within that you
still have empires you still
have nations you have
city-states you have all of
these various actors but it all
adds up to a sort of you know
coexisting civilization the
surgery growth triangle
Singapore Malaysia and Indonesia
are trying to optimize their
space and what you have here is
a case we have a country's
Singapore which has very almost
no land but a lot of capital
country like Malaysia that has
quite a bit of land and labour
and some capital and Indonesia
which has a lot of land and a
lot of labor and very little
capital
so you take these three
countries that are all very
close to each other and they
said starting in the 1970s
nineteen eighties
let's start to take singaporean
money and Malaysian and
Indonesian land and indonesian
labor and put it on some islands
that nominally belong to
Indonesia and let's start
building ships that are owned by
singaporean companies but let's
optimize our geography let's
treat it like we are connected
by one
supply chain and that's what
they started to do and you
wouldn't know that there's one
set of rules in one place and
another because now people can
increasingly move seamlessly
around them and that's how
places one by one gradually
their neighbors
shift transition from political
geography functional geography
but the supply chains are in
fact the original world wide web
and they are that system of
transactions that gets any one
thing to it - 11 thing from one
place to any other place and in
many cases in the global supply
chain today we no longer really
know where something is made and
so I believe that you know the
labels on everything from
clothing to computers and should
really be made everywhere
if you look at where the design
is done
the manufacturing is done the
the production the the marketing
the distribution the insurance
the repair of any given product
it involves you know companies
and subcontractors is over from
all over the world
there's only there's very little
that is made exactly where where
where the label says it is in
fact and that's what happens
when we get to the supply chain
world so you can see it in the
fact that trade now reaches
every corner of the planet
you can see it in the ways in
which people in the financial
industry are affected by the
financial crisis of 2008
collapse of manufacturing as a
result of the financial crisis
Automobile Workers manufacturing
workers around the world
you know simultaneously lose
their jobs you may not have
noticed it because that may not
be your circuit but people who
work in that industry all over
the world simultaneously
affected
such is the nature of that
connectivity among explosion it
is a very human thing because
each and every one of us belongs
to some kind of circuit and we
move we gravitate towards the
supply chain towards these
circuits we want to be part of
them and when the supply chain
and when infrastructure doesn't
come to you
you go to it right and and that
is that is why so many people
today why that's why there's
more migrants than ever in
history today people are on the
move
one of the ways in which you
know economist or others would
measure the extent of
globalization as they would say
well x and y number of people
have crossed borders any given
year
that's not the correct way to
measure
globalization in my view it's
how many people are connected
and to get connected
you don't have to move across an
international boundary most
people will never leave the
country they were born in
but if you move to a city you
have access to services you may
work in a factory of a foreign
company or connected in order to
supply chains will have a mobile
phone
all of these things connected to
the world even though you've
never left the country so to me
the rate of urbanization is the
greatest measurement of the
extent to which mankind is
getting connected and of course
we live in a rapidly rapidly
urbanizing world now most of the
world's population does live in
in cities already part of this
global network civilization part
of this move from political the
functional geography is that
perhaps not surprisingly cities
can be seen as more important in
many ways than countries
so what is on this map is every
human being in the world you
have the entire world's
population here and you have you
know that the population density
as well and you have these are
oval showing you the kind of
outlines of where the largest
most you know most populous
megacity clusters are and in the
large circles tell you what a
what percentage or share of the
national economy those cities
represent
so what you're seeing here is
not only where mankind is
concentrated
but of course just how
significant those particular
clusters are where they wear
with where they're located and
so you're 30 or 40 of these
represent a growing share of of
the world economy and by the
year twenty thirty most
projections estimate they'll be
about 50 mega city archipelagos
and these really represent you
know the preponderance share of
the world economic activity so i
put out of all of them up on one
map here and again I ask the
question you're trying to
understand how the world works
that are not a naive question
I wonder which map tells you
more this one or the
conventional ones or maybe some
mix of the two but certainly not
one that ignores this because
the map that ignores this is not
actually capturing who we are
where we are and what we do
part of this story is a what I
call pop up cities special
economic zones and fifty years
ago we had almost no special
economic zones in the world
today
geographies industrial parks
that were set aside and
designated primarily for the
purpose of attracting foreign
investment bringing in
technology training workers
boosting exports allowing
countries and their labor force
to rise up the value chain today
we have four thousand such
special economic zones in the
world today it is the most
rapidly expanding type of city
so this is a a very significant
trend in the world today
china has become an empire of
such mega cities each of which
has almost at the designated
economic function in the global
supply chain and you think that
it's fascinating it's very very
instructive in the shift from
political to functional
geography that the world's
oldest continuous civilization
with very diverse provincial and
linguistic histories in many of
it in it in his provinces would
say that's all fine and good
you can keep your dialects and
as your culture and so on but we
need to organize the country in
a new way so that each of these
mega city clusters as an
internally viable economy so it
is anywhere from twenty to a
hundred million people so that
has lots of services and
transactions going on among
people so it's not dependent
just on exporting one kind of
widget or product but at the
same time each one is very
connected to each other through
high speed rail networks and
highways and so forth and
internationally to the global
economy and this process of
reorganizing the sort of the
management of a country is
something that we that we are
starting to see around the world
this is how I believe it should
happen in the United States
what I'm basically saying
is that the 50 united states
that we have are very very
useful when you're trying to win
an election when you're out
there campaigning but it tells
you
absolutely nothing about how to
properly govern America's
geography to be an economically
competitive superpower right
what we need is for these mega
regions if you will that have
certain common internal economic
characteristics like agriculture
or industry to be much more
seamlessly connected to each
other and to the outside world
they need to be built around
urban economies of their core
and they need to be connected to
each other through freight rail
corridors high-speed rail
networks and so forth so if you
take this layering of the
natural economic geography these
big patches and the urban
clusters that are in white that
are going to be economic hubs
and then the infrastructure
connectivity
that's how you would turn the
united states of america into
United city states of america
that would be one that would be
far more a far more efficient
for more viable far more
sensible and certainly far more
competitive the optimistic note
that i want to end on that I in
the book on this idea that we
are actually returning to a
fairly ancient model we are a
coastal urban network
civilization write a world in
which people are more interested
in trade and commerce with each
other than conquest and this is
what i call the pox or banica
write a piece
among the cities in which if we
think of the way cities you the
world versus the way the
countries of the world you know
cities are interested in in in
trade and connectivity
whereas we think of countries
being expand interested in in
territorial aggrandizement and
so the more we move into a world
in which that mentality of
Interior be'n connectivity and
and sharing lessons with each
other
trading with each other positive
some relations the more peaceful
ultimately the entire world
system can be but you know the
the punchline really is that if
you want to have this world
you actually have to build it
and it starts with what we are
doing today and what we do a lot
more of which is investing
first and foremost in
connectivity connectivity for
countries connectivity for
cities
and connectivity for people and
with that I'll stop
thank you so very much
yeah